Friederike Born

They say kill your enemies with kindness, bake them a cake…



Upside-down apple pie from stolen apples (delicious recipe for any occasion).


Apple, cinnamon and caramel: a combination you can't imagine the colder seasons without. Combined with Whiskey/Rum for heating from insight the body. This upside-down apple pie is a fun variation on the regular apple pie. To increase the excitement of baking, this cake contains only apples stolen from the unfriendly neighbor!
Servings: Springform pan (26 cm)
Ingredients
o	4 apples
o	1-2 small liters of whisky or rum
Mixing dough
o	150 g butter
o	120 g sugar
o	3 eggs
o	1 teaspoon vanilla flavor
o	125 ml milk
o	200 g flour
o	1 tsp baking powder
o	1 tsp cinnamon
o	1 pinch of salt
Butter caramel
o	120 g brown sugar
o	100 g butter

Instructions
Dough mixture
1.	For the dough mixture, cream the butter with the sugar until fluffy. Then quickly beat in each egg, one at a time, until blended. Add the vanilla.
2.	Check the quality of the whisky/rum before use. Take a large glass for this and drink it before the next step.
3.	Mix the dry ingredients flour, baking powder, cinnamon, and salt. Add the flour mixture alternately with milk and a little bit of whiskey/rum (amount at personal discretion!) to the mixed butter. Set the finished dough aside.
4.	As the dry ingredients have certainly made the air in the kitchen dry and a dry throat is harmful to health, it is essential to counteract this danger with another glass of whiskey/rum before peeling the apples.
5.	Peel, core and thinly slice four apples.
Butter caramel
1.	Preheat the oven to 160° convection or 180° top/bottom heat.
2.	Melt the butter in a pan over a medium heat. Stir in the brown sugar. It is ready when it has bubbled for a minute.
	Note: This step can also be enhanced by the cook ingesting a glass of whiskey/rum.
Assembling the cake
It is layered "the other way round" by putting the butter caramel in a baking dish first, then the apples and only then the pastry.
	Butter the baking dish. Cover the bottom of the dish with the butter caramel. Then layer the apple slices in a circle. Do this as nicely and as tightly as possible, as you will see it once it is inverted. Spread the dough mixture over the apples. Very carefully so that the apples do not shift.

    

	Bake the cake in the oven for about 30 minutes. Place a tray under the cake, as the caramel will run out a little. Test with a chopstick, drink the rest of the whiskey/rum bottle and you are done.
	Turn off the oven before falling asleep!
	Leave the cake to cool for 30 minutes, remove from the tin and turn out onto a plate! 
	Enjoy your cake!
